Lloyd Sanderson
Professor Ogata
ICS 314
2023 August 29
Reflecting on Javascript
	Going across many of the languages that I have learned throughout the years, to be completely honest, I was a newbie with Javascript. I had no idea how it would function, how you would do basic arithmetic, declare variables, print out values and so forth. But as I went forward with it, I realized that it is not much different than say Java. How you would create a function (in Java would be a class) and be able to declare function variables throughout the body. One thing though that makes it different from the others is that it is able to be “First-class functions” meaning that variables can be declared through the function which make it easy and concise for the programmer to use.
	Alternatively, conventional Javascript models and the newer introduction to ES6 I believe made it a little more complex to comprehend, but overall easier to implement, such as the arrow notation. Instead of implicitly stating a function, you can use arrow notation to mark that function as a variable and be able to pass arguments through that. I believe that is a very convenient and ingenuitive way to do function declarations. From a software engineering perspective, Javascript has many useful qualities which make code more accessible, easier to read with not as much difficulty, all which keeping the normal conventions of past languages (such as C++, Python and Java) which make it also easier to learn for an individual like myself that is completely new to Javascript to pick up and use on a daily basis.
	Overall in terms of the WODs, learning Javascript through this method was tough, to do a certain task in a given time allotted is very stressful that you will either not be able to finish in time, or the code will not compile. Being an all or nothing, this really puts emphasis on the fact that you would really need to know your stuff before attempting the WOD, or else you will not do as well on it. It gives a good incentive for the student to practice though and figure out what could be done to improve in the WOD as well as any other significant changes they could make to alter their code better, shorter, or easier to read. These factors really come into consideration when doing a WOD because they are tested on their ability not only to get the correct code, but quickly get the correct code. In a sense, I think practicing WODs are enjoyable because it helps you prepare for the WOD and you might learn something new along the way. Regardless, it is a good resource to understand and pick up Javascript, but you will have to be prepared for what comes next.
